“Kashmir mourns Handwara killings”. “Victim school girl in Police custody. Govt does not want truth to come out: JKCCS”

	Kashmir observed complete strike on the second consecutive day on April 14 in protest against the killing of three youths and an aged woman in firing and shelling by government forces in Handwara town (district Kupwara).  

	While many Srinagar areas witnessed stringent curbs for the second day, all separatist leaders remained either under house detention or under preventive custody in various Police Stations.  Shops and other commercial establishment remained closed while very thin private traffic plied on roads.

	The strike call evoked total response in all other district Headquarters as complete shutdown was observed in North Kashmir’s Baramulla, Kupwara, South Kashmir’s Pulwama, Shopian, Kulgam and Anantnag districts and central Kashmir’s Ganderbal and Budgam districts. 

	A Police Spokesman said in the evening, “Situation remained largely peaceful throughout Kashmir Valley though a few incidents of stone pelting were reported from Handwara (Kupwara) and Zakoora and HMT (Srinagar) areas.  The deployments exercised maximum restraint and there were no reports of injuries to any civilian although some cops were injured, one of them seriously.  General public is once again requested to please refrain from indulging in lawlessness, remain calm and help the administration in maintaining peace and order”.

	Meanwhile, the Handwara school girl who was allegedly molested by an Army solder on April 12, 2016 - the incident that led to four killings by security forces - was in preventive custody along with her father, even as a rights group demanded their immediate release.  The news about the girl still being in Police custody gave rise to more questions about the video released on April 12 ostensibly exonerating the accused soldier of molestation charges, with a  Civil Society group saying that the detention of victim confirms that the State does not want truth to come out. DIG Police, North Kashmir, Uttam Chand said, “The family has approached us for protection and parents of the girl are accompanying her.  We can not deny protection to somebody who has threat”.

	However, the family has told J&K Coalition of Civil Society (JKCCS) that the girl had been kept in Police custody since the incident happened.  Last night they said, “The father of victims was called to Handwara Police Station. He was accompanied by his brother.  Since then his whereabouts are not known. The family has been denied access to both the minor girl and her father”.  The JKCCS alleged that the detention of the minor girl and her father are outside the powers of State and appears to be an attempt to further pressurize the family to withdraw all allegations against the armed forces.